# Reference
<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

**Resource types**

* [`interface`](#interface): This represents a router or switch interface. It is possible to manage interface mode (access or trunking, native vlan and encapsulation) and
* [`router`](#router): Manages connected router.
* [`vlan`](#vlan): Manages a VLAN on a router or switch.

## Resource types

### interface

This represents a router or switch interface. It is possible to manage
interface mode (access or trunking, native vlan and encapsulation) and
switchport characteristics (speed, duplex).

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `interface` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent, shutdown, no_shutdown

Aliases: "shutdown"=>"absent", "no_shutdown"=>"present"

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

##### `description`

Interface description.

##### `speed`

Valid values: auto, %r{^\d+}

Interface speed.

##### `duplex`

Valid values: auto, full, half

Interface duplex.

##### `access_vlan`

Valid values: %r{^\d+}

Interface static access vlan.

##### `native_vlan`

Valid values: %r{^\d+}

Interface native vlan when trunking.

##### `encapsulation`

Valid values: none, dot1q, isl, negotiate

Interface switchport encapsulation.

##### `mode`

Valid values: access, trunk, dynamic auto, dynamic desirable

Interface switchport mode.

##### `allowed_trunk_vlans`

Valid values: all, %r{.}

Allowed list of Vlans that this trunk can forward.

##### `etherchannel`

Valid values: %r{^\d+}

Channel group this interface is part of.

##### `ipaddress`

IP Address of this interface. Note that it might not be possible to set
an interface IP address; it depends on the interface type and device type.

Valid format of ip addresses are:

* IPV4, like 127.0.0.1
* IPV4/prefixlength like 127.0.1.1/24
* IPV6/prefixlength like FE80::21A:2FFF:FE30:ECF0/128
* an optional suffix for IPV6 addresses from this list: `eui-64`, `link-local`

It is also possible to supply an array of values.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `interface` type.

##### `name`

namevar

The interface's name.

##### `device_url`

The URL at which the router or switch can be reached.

### router

Manages connected router.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `router` type.

##### `url`

namevar

An SSH or telnet URL at which to access the router, in the form
`ssh://user:pass:enable@host/` or `telnet://user:pass:enable@host/`.

### vlan

Manages a VLAN on a router or switch.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `vlan` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: present, absent

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: present

##### `description`

The VLAN's name.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `vlan` type.

##### `name`

Valid values: %r{^\d+}

namevar

The numeric VLAN ID.

##### `device_url`

The URL of the router or switch maintaining this VLAN.

